Believe it or not, I try to focus my
content on the things I actually enjoy.
The things I like doing, the things I
like talking about, the things I'm
building, all the things that bring me
joy. But today, I have to do two things
that bring me no joy at all. I have to
talk about politics, and more
importantly, I have to defend anthropic.
I can't believe I've been put in this
position. I really have tried to avoid
anything politics related since I
started this channel over four years
ago. But when the US government starts
sending threats to labs, I think it's
time for me to jump in. The Pentagon has
just threatened Anthropic, specifying
that they must comply with the
government's requests or they will be
listed a supply chain threat. That's a
pretty big deal, especially because
we've never had any supply chain threat
identified and marked that was a US
company in the history of the United
States. This is unprecedented action
that, yes, is targeting a lab I happen
to like making fun of a lot. But I hope
we can all agree after we talk about
this a bit that this is an absurd
overreach that no free country should be
able to do. I have a lot to say here
from the original statement that the
government put out in January to the
followup from Shawn Parnell and the
formal threats that are now being made
to Anthropic to Daario's response that
he just published a few hours ago where
he seems to be rejecting these new
policies being pushed on him. There's a
lot to dive into here and I'm going to
do my best to cover this in as
reasonable and neutral a way as
possible. But since this is such a
highly political topic, finding a
sponsor is going to be a bit tough. So,
please give some love to whoever agreed
to sponsor today's video. Hey, you.
You're a pretty good engineer, right?
I'm sure you've been in this position
before. A user reports a bug. You know
the exact code that caused it. You hop
in the codebase, fix it, takes you what,
five minutes max, and then you're stuck
sitting there waiting for 30 plus
minutes just so the build can complete
for code you already know works. That's
kind of insane, right? Well, today's
sponsor Depot is here to make you feel
way less insane. They're going to make
your builds comically faster. Not like
20%, closer to like 20x. Postto saw 15x
improvement in their build times. GRPC
saw a 7x improvement. Zed saw 1.4x.
Apache CFKA saw 3.1x. Even Mastadon saw
7x. The difference is crazy. They saved
their customers almost 250,000 hours
last week alone. Kind of crazy. There's
a reason companies like Postto, Jane,
Poolside, and more all use them. Hell,
even Inference, you know, the company
that does hardware provisioning, also
uses them, too, which is nuts. It shows
just how valuable what they built is.
The depot cache and remote container
builds are honestly kind of magical. You
provision Docker images and then
everyone on your team runs the depot
command instead, and suddenly everything
is way faster. Their cache is also
incredible, and it's not limited to just
their CI. Once you have something in
their cache, your whole team can access
it. So everything they do, even local
builds, will be up to 10 times faster.
So if you're tired of waiting for CI or
you just want those Docker builds
locally to be way faster, there's no
better place than soy. And use code Theo
for 75% off your first month. Let's
start from the top. Memorandum for
senior Pentagon Leadership Commanders of
the Combatant Commands Defense Agency
and Department of War Field Activities
Directors. President Trump makes clear
in executive order 14179. It is the
policy of the United States to sustain
and enhance America's global artificial
intelligence dominance in order to
promote human flourishing, economic
competitiveness, and national security.
This is the important piece here. In the
national security domain, AI enabled
warfare and AI enabled capability
development will redefine the
characteristics of military affairs over
the next decade. This transformation is
a race fueled by the accelerating pace
of commercial AI innovation coming out
of America's private sector. The United
States military must build on its lead
over our adversaries in integrating this
technology established during President
Trump's first term to make our war
fighters more lethal and efficient. I I
I hate to call out things like this cuz
I I really am trying to not be
political. I just want to cover the news
here. But as a person who cares a lot
about text formatting, copy, and how
messages are presented, this piece here
established during President Trump's
first term, that sixword statement here
shows that the whole point of this
document is to perform the glazing
process on Donald Trump. This is not a
factual document that is meant to drive
the nation forward. This is a political
document meant to make a specific person
feel good. this six-word piece would not
be in a document for any other reason
cuz Trump obviously had nothing to do
with the creation of AI and the random
chance that OpenAI happened to release
chat GPT during Trump's term is not a
meaningful piece of information other
than to make Trump feel good. So, if
there was any doubt for anybody,
regardless of what side of the political
aisle you're on, that this is just a
political performance and not like
something more meaningful, you're just
wrong. There are six words here that
prove you wrong. You cannot sit here and
pretend that this is a good faith
document and a good faith representation
of things. You can say it doesn't
matter. You can say, "Well, yeah, they
do things like that. I don't care though
cuz they're doing what I want." That is
fine. Just make sure you recognize that
the difference between this and the
difference between literal propaganda
from China is the side of the world that
they were inked on. Just need you guys
to be factual here. Anyways, there's a
lot of other little details in here.
Most of it doesn't matter too much, but
the AI model parody section is somewhat
important. They directed the department
to establish a delivery and integration
cadence with AI vendors that enable the
latest models to be deployed within 30
days of public release. And another
totally not political statement,
diversity, equity, and inclusion in
social ideology have no place in the
Department of War. So, we must not
employ AI models which incorporate
ideological tunings that interfere with
their abilities to produce objectively
truthful responses to user prompts. I've
never heard about DEI more than I have
during this admin. For what it is worth,
they seem to think about it a lot. kind
of nuts that a document about AI in war
has a whole section about DEI, but
that's where we're at in 2026. The
important part here is that they direct
that under the Secretary of War for
acquisition and sustainment that they
incorporate standard any lawful use
language into any Department of War
contract through which AI services are
procured within 180 days. This means
that if it is considered within the law,
they should be able to use the models
for it. That's the important piece. any
safeguards that the models have to
prevent things like killing people,
making weapons, commanding weapons,
scanning, surveillance, all of the
things that a lot of these labs went out
of their way to prevent any lawful use
means that if the US declares it is
within the law, then the model has to be
allowed to kill people. Any safety
guards that the models have in place
have to be turned off for the government
as long as the thing the government is
doing is considered by the government to
be within lawful use. One more important
piece here is this idea that this is
language they want to insert into any
department of war contract through which
AI services are procured. That means
there's a really simple solution. If a
company doesn't want to provide this to
the government, they can choose to not.
Historically, that's how free markets
have worked. And for better or worse,
and this is going to piss off all sides,
I tend to like free markets. For the
most part, they seem to balance things
out okay when controlled and set up
properly. Part of a free market is your
ability to refuse customers. As a
business owner, you should and do have a
legal right to refuse customers based on
the requests the customers make. A
customer asks for a service you don't
want to provide, you are totally within
your legal right to refuse to provide
said service, as should obviously be the
case. And this is why I'm so scared. The
Pentagon has given a straightup
ultimatum to Anthropic. Why would they
do that? It's cuz they really want to
use them. The US military already is
using Anthropic models. In fact, they
use Claude in the Venezuela raid that
just happened a few weeks ago. They're
using Anthropic alongside Palunteer.
Apparently, Anthropic and Palanteer have
a partnership. I bet a lot of y'all
didn't know that. Yeah, seems like the
government likes the clawed models.
Someone should introduce them to Codeex
5.3. Jokes aside, though, there are a
lot of things that a lot of different
models work in, and when you're testing
all of them thoroughly, you'll regularly
find that one thing is slightly better
than another thing at certain stuff. And
anthropic models seem to be quite
popular with the US government, which is
why they are playing hardcore here.
Apparently, Anthropic is the only AI
company with models currently operating
on classified military systems.
Interesting. I did not know that.
Fascinating. Pentagon ordered the firm
to bend to their demands by Friday,
specifically stating that if they don't
do it, the Trump administration would
invoke the Defense Production Act, which
is a act that was put out for defenses
during wartime to identify threats in
the supply chain. Like, I don't know,
the company making the computer you put
in the tank that you're about to ship to
go fight that country. Like, if you're
in war with Germany, Germany shouldn't
be manufacturing parts for your tank.
This is a law from the 50s. It's not a
law that gets used a whole lot. And it's
never been used against a company that
is part of America. There has never in
history been a case of the Defense
Production Act being used to flag and
punish a company within the United
States. This would label Anthropic a
supply chain risk, which would
complicate a shitload of stuff for them
as a company. According to Sean Parnell,
who's the assistant to the Secretary of
War for all of that, his statement is as
follows. Peravore has no interest in
using AI to conduct mass surveillance of
Americans, which is illegal. Nor do we
want to use AI to develop autonomous
weapons that operate without human
involvement. This narrative is fake at
being pedled by leftists in the media.
Man, which party's being more political
here. Like, how absurd is it that I, a
disgruntled YouTuber, am doing a better
job of describing what's going on here
in a neutral way than the employees
whose jobs it is to do that of the
government. He is not a politically
elected position here. He is an
assistant to the Secretary of War. It's
his job to communicate, not his job to
be political. That is insane. Statements
like this from the assistant to the
Secretary of War are genuinely absurd.
Here's what we're asking. Allow the
Pentagon to use Anthropic's models for
all lawful purposes. This is a simple
common sense request that will prevent
Anthropic from jeopardizing critical
military operations and potentially
putting our war fighters at risk. We
will not let any company dictate the
terms regarding how we make operational
decisions. They have until 5:01 p.m.
Eastern time on Friday to decide.
Otherwise, we will terminate our
partnership with Enthropic and deem them
a supply chain risk for the Department
of War. The supply chain risk
designation goes a lot further than the
Department of War. They're wording it
this way to make it sound like they are
just banning them from D. They are not.
This is a wide reaching punishment that
they are inflicting on anthropic because
they do not like how they are being
treated. This is the problem. The
government's supposed to defend
companies rights to refuse customers and
refuse requests of customers, not the
opposite. Obviously, customers have
rights, but it is not your right to
force a business to operate entirely
differently. I've been forced to defend
a lot of things I don't like this way.
There's a famous developer who I won't
name here that claimed Apple was
breaking the law by not exposing
iMessage over API. I love on
Apple for doing stupid but
that is absurd. Apple is in no way
compelled to provide every feature,
every service, everything that they do
for their customers over API to third
parties. Obviously not. That makes no
sense at all. They are a business that
gets to choose what they do and don't
provide as services. You can't force me
to provide API keys on T3 chat cuz then
we go bankrupt. We're not going to do
it. We're building a different product.
Anthropic is building a different
product. They're not building an AI for
war. They're building an AI for general
safe use. And the US government seems
mad as all hell about that. Even
comparing this to other companies is not
really fair because if a company has a
customer that is being annoying, they
just cut them off. It's fine. It's
totally fine. But the government can do
more. The government can threaten you.
The government can threaten laws and
sanctions and all of these other things.
And the fact that they're invoking these
laws against a company that I don't even
like. Like I am designated Anthropic's
number one hater and I am proud of that
title. I love on Anthropic so
much. Yet my love of freedom and free
markets is forcing me to defend them
here. How the is it that I am the
one fighting for fair markets and the
right-wing government is the one that is
fighting against me? Quick
clarification. The Defense Production
Act is a new Defense Production Act,
separate from the one from the '50s, and
this one's actually significantly worse.
The original DPA was from the Korean
War, but it has been extended many times
since then, most recently through
September 2026. DPA already applies to
AI. The Biden admin added a section here
requiring AI companies to report on
training activities, red team results,
and model weights. And that was under
title seven which is information
gathering which is like the different
levels of intensity for which this acts.
Title seven is very low intensity. It's
they can ask for information. Title one
is they can compel the business to do
what the government wants. This is to be
very clear the government using the
protection act to enforce companies
compelled to their will. The exact quote
is the president can require that
performance under contracts or orders
which he deems necessary appropriate to
promote the national events shall take
priority over performance under any
other contract or order. This is that
the government specifically the
president can put something in front of
whatever other work the company's doing
saying you have to do this right now.
This act has been used for good things
before like rationing metals during the
Korean War or for using it to redirect
medical supplies, vaccines, and test
kits during CO. Like this can be used
for good things. Never has it been used
to mark somebody as a domestic risk and
try to nationalize a business. This
seems to be the section the argument is
going to come down to whether or not the
changes the government's requesting are
changes to the product versus lifting of
restrictions. If there are just a couple
lines of code that Enthropic can turn
off, then this should be totally legal
and the government's going to argue that
that is the case. If that isn't the
case, if it turns out these safety
guardrails are so deeply baked in the
model that you can't get them out, then
they're possibly going to use the same
thing to do forced retraining. The
government could compel Anthropic to
retrain or make a new Claude like a
Claude 4.6-willing-2-kill.
Some other model could be made by the
government spec and the government's
requirements. and that would be a new
product rather than dropping contractual
restrictions. The government's tried
this before, trying to get some iPhones
unlocked after a shooting, claiming that
Apple should be forced to unlock them.
Apple couldn't even unlock them and the
government said, "No, you have to make a
way." Then that was a whole show. I
hate when the government makes me defend
companies I don't like. I'm really tired
of this happening over and over.
There are criminal penalties if
Anthropic doesn't comply to the order,
which again, using this to punish
companies is very, very bad. And and
funny enough, even the Republicans
agree. Remember earlier where the modest
use that Biden had to have the DPA
require the AI labs submit a bit of
information at the end of the year? The
Republicans were pissed. Trump promises
to repeal Biden's AI executive order.
Apparently, Biden's order that the
information should be sent to the
government is dangerous. It hinders AI
innovation imposes radical left-wing
ideas on the development of this
technology. Republicans support AI
development rooted in free speech and
human flourishing. That's definitely
what you're going for, right? I'm trying
my best to not just take a side here,
but there is only one side here being
reasonable, and then there's one side
that can't stop contradicting
itself for 15 seconds. It's insane. It's
actually insane. The The only defense of
the administration here, the only
defense is to say, "All right, yes, the
details here go against our values. Yes,
we hate big Gov. Yes, we love open
markets. Yes, we want companies to be
able to control themselves, but we're
willing to put all of that aside
temporarily because we care about this
one other thing more. We accept that we
are doing all the things we hate because
there's this one other thing we want
that bad. That is the actual only way to
defend this action. Enough of the
nonsense. Let's read what Dario said. I
believe deeply in the existential
importance of using AI to defend the
United States and other democracies and
to defeat our autocratic adversaries.
Anthropic has therefore worked
proactively to deploy our models to the
Department of War and to the
intelligence community. We were the
first frontier AI company to deploy our
models in the US government's classified
networks. The first to deploy them at
the national labs and the first to
provide custom models for national
security customers. Claude is
extensively deployed across the
Department of War and other national
security agencies for mission critical
applications such as intelligence
analysis, modeling and simulation,
operation planning, cyber operations,
and more. Anthropic has also acted to
defend America's lead NAI even when it
is against the company's short-term
interest. We chose to forego several
hundred million in revenue to cut off
the use of Claude by firms linked to the
Chinese Communist Party. Some of whom
have been designated by the Department
of War as Chinese military companies.
They shut down CCP sponsored cyber
attacks that tended to abuse Claude. All
anti-China stuff. Anthropic has, as
we've established earlier this week,
very much is in war against China
themselves. Anthropic understands that
the Department of War, not private
companies, make military decisions. We
have never raised objections to
particular military operations, nor
attempted to limit use of our technology
in an ad hoc manner. However, in a
narrow set of cases, we believe AI can
undermine rather than defend democratic
values. There is a rich irony here that
they are concerned about democracy and
freedom not being honored, and now they
are being treated by like the least free
and democratic actions have seen a
government take in a longass time. Some
uses are also simply out of the bounds
of what today's technology can safely
and reliably do. Two such use cases have
never been included in our contracts
with the Department of War, and we
believe they should not be included. The
first is mass domestic surveillance and
the second is fully autonomous weapons.
They specify with the fully autonomous
weapons that today Frontier systems are
simply not reliable enough to power
fully autonomous weapons. We will not
knowingly provide a product that puts
American war fighters and civilians at
risk. We have offered to work directly
with the Department of War on research
and development to improve the
reliability of these systems, but they
have not accepted this offer. In
addition, without proper oversight,
fully autonomous weapons cannot be
relied upon to exercise the critical
judgment that our highly trained
professional troops have exhibited every
day. They need to be deployed with
proper guardrails, which don't exist
today. Imagine if everybody's clawed bot
suddenly had a gun. I've gotten so many
rogue texts and things from people who
let their open claw run their iMessage.
Imagine if it had weapons. To our
knowledge, these two exceptions have not
been a barrier to accelerating the
adoption and use of our models within
our armed forces to date. Again, they
used it for the Venezuela raid just a
few weeks ago. The Department of War has
stated that they will only contract with
AI companies who aced to any lawful use
and remove safeguards in the cases
mentioned above. They have threatened to
remove us from their systems if we
maintain these safeguards. They've also
threatened to designate us a supply
chain risk, a label reserved for US
adversaries never before applied to an
American company, and to invoke the
Defense Production Act to force the
safeguards removal. So they're going to
deem them a supply chain risk, remove
them from the systems, and then force
them to integrate like nationalist style
into the government stuff to comply as a
third party forced to do the
government's work for free because of
the DPA. Insane. Also a good point that
the latter two threats are inherently
contradictory. They label us a security
risk and the other labels claude as
essential to national security. Yeah,
insane. Regardless, these threats don't
change our position. We cannot in good
conscience accept the request. It is the
department's prerogative to select
contractors most aligned with their
vision. But given the substantial value
that anthropics technology provides to
our armed forces, we hope they
reconsider. Our strong preference is to
continue to serve the department and our
war fighters with our two requested
safeguards in place. Should the
department choose to offboard anthropic,
we will work to enable a smooth
transition to another provider, avoiding
any disruption to ongoing military
planning, operations, or other critical
missions. Can you imagine Grock running
all of this? I'm just imagining a drone
shouting for Jeffrey as it crashes into
something. Like just just imagine a gun
making a Jeffrey Epstein joke. I'm
sorry. I just I I had to make one
political joke. It's so hard to not call
internet comment etiquette Eric right
now and have him make a joke about robot
warf fighters in bikinis or something.
Back to responsible reporting. There's
one other important piece here. The open
letter. We will not be defied. This is a
letter from various labs. not the labs
themselves, but employees at these labs.
The Department of War is threatening to
invoke the Defense Production Act to
force Anthropic to serve their model to
the military and tailor its model to the
military's needs and to label the
company a supply chain risk. All in
retaliation for Anthropic sticking to
their red line to not allow the models
to be used for domestic mass
surveillance and autonomous killing
people without human oversight. The
Pentagon's negotiating with Google and
OpenAI to try to get them to agree on
what Anthropic has refused. Also notice
that the Pentagon is not talking to XAI.
Even the government realizes that Grock
models are useless. They're trying to
divide each company with fear that the
other will give in. The strategy only
works if none of us know where the
others stand. This letter serves to
create shared understanding and
solidarity in the face of this pressure
from the Department of War. We are the
employees of Google and OpenAI, two of
the top AI companies in the world. We
hope our leaders will put aside their
differences and stand together to
continue to refuse the Department of
War's current demands for permission to
use our model for domestic mass
surveillance and autonomously killing
people without human oversight. Signed
by 175 Google employees and 47 OpenAI
employees so far. I hope that number is
a lot higher by the time you guys see
this. Link in the description for
anybody who happens to work at those two
companies that wants to add their
signature. I think this is a really
important thing to stand for. Yes, I,
the guy who can't help but bully
Anthropic at every opportunity, am
telling you guys to go sign a document
defending Anthropic. I think this is
really important. I don't know what else
to say on this one. I'm sorry for
getting political, but I like living in
a free country. Just I know, crazy,
really biased out here wanting freedom
in the country I live in, but here we
are. Let me know how y'all feel about
this one. And until next time, peace
nerds.